# Phage Genome Annotation Pipeline:
The Snakemake file *Pipeline_Phage_Genomic_Analysis.smk* handles the first three steps of the annotation process: read processing, read quality control, and read assembly. For context, Snakemake acts as an extension to the standard python syntax and is very useful when creating modularized workflows and pipelines with conda packages/programs. First, the Trimmomatic package was used to process the raw Illumina reads by removing the Illumina clips at the ends of the DNA sequences and deleting reads that do not meet a quality standard. Then, the remaining, processed reads are input into the programs within the FastQC conda package that assess the quality of the reads and determines whether the DNA sample needs to be resequenced by Illumina. If the reads pass the quality control process, then they are input into a program within the Shovill conda package that assembles them into a single genome. 

Afterwards, online software such as NCBI BLAST, MegaX, and Patric were used to determine the genome packaging strategy of the phage, auto-annotate the genome, and identify the function of every gene. 

# SNP Analysis
After annotating several bacteriophage samples using this pipeline, some samples were compared to one another to determine if we should account for any single nucleotide polymorphisms (in other words, a mutation in a single base of the DNA within a gene) in our analyses and if pressure from bacteria was promoting these mutations in specific genes in the phage genomes of our samples. To achieve this, I wrote a bash script *Snippy_Savio_Job.sh* that compares two samples with each other by using programs within the Snippy conda package to determine if any single nucleotide polymorphisms were present. This script was run on Berkeley's computing cluster Savio as a SLURM job and 10 different phage sample combinations were compared. 

