# Phylogenetic Analysis
First, I created a dataset containing every FASTA file from all known strains of the Pseudomonas Syringae pv. Syringae (Pss) bacteria species including our samples isolated in the lab. Afterwards, I mass annotated all of these bacterial genomes using the Prokka bacterial genome annotation conda package. To efficiently, annotate the genomes created two bash scripts and a Snakemake file. For context, Snakemake acts as an extension to the standard python syntax and is very useful when creating modularized workflows and pipelines with conda packages/programs. *Prokka_Delegated_Savio.sh* takes in a bacterial genome and annotates it using the Prokka conda package with the assumption that it is a Pss genome. *Savio_Prokka_Pss.smk* is a Snakemake file that iterates through my dataset of FASTA files, plugs each one into *Prokka_Delegated_Savio.sh*, and saves the result in a unique folder based its file name. I had to delegate the annotation process into its own seperate file(*Prokka_Delegated_Savio.sh*) because of a limitation of Snakemake that prevents the use of conda environments in Snakemake functions that run python code with unix commands instead of just pure unix code. *Savio_Pss_Job.sh* is the bash script that executes *Savio_Prokka_Pss.smk* on Berkeley's computing cluster Savio. After mass-annotating the bacteria genomes, I took all of the gff3 files output by *Savio_Pss_Job.sh* (there is one for each strain) and input them into the *Roary_Savio_Script.sh* bash script, which uses the Roary conda package to construct an unrooted phylogenetic tree showing the relationships of all the Pss bacterial species in my dataset. 
